---
sidebar_position: 2
title: "ID"
---

# Account ID

:::note
An immutable and unique identifier for the `Account`.
:::

The `Account` ID is a 120-bit long number. This identifier is designed to contain the metadata of an account. The metadata includes the [account type](#account-type) and the version of the `Account`. This metadata is included in the ID to ensure it can be read without needing the full account state.

The ID is generated by hashing a randomly generated seed together with commitments to the initial code and storage of the `Account` until the resulting ID has the desired account type. This process requires a small amount of Proof-of-Work (6 bits) that can be done even by low-powered devices. The resulting 256-bit hash is shortened to 120 bits.

The account type is chosen at account creation time and cannot be changed later.

### Account type

Users can choose whether their accounts are stored publicly or privately. The preference is encoded in the account's ID:

- **Private Accounts:**
  Only a commitment (hash) to the account's state is stored on-chain. This mode is suitable for users who prioritize privacy or plan to store a large amount of data in their `Account`. To interact with a private `Account`, a user must have knowledge of its interface.

- **Public Accounts:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, similar to how accounts are stored in public blockchains like Ethereum.

## Encoding

:::info
Bech32 is the preferred encoding format and should be used for user-facing applications like wallets or websites.
:::

An `Account` ID can be encoded in different formats:

1. [**Bech32**](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0173.mediawiki) (user-facing):
  - Example: `mm1ap86qhrsrs4gcy2ntrerfkwylure4ly5`
  - **Benefits**:
    - Built-in error detection via checksum algorithm
    - Human-readable prefix indicates network ID
    - Less prone to transcription errors
  - **Structure**:
    - [Human-readable prefix](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0173.md) that
      determines the network:
      - `mm` (indicates **M**iden **M**ainnet)
      - `mtst` (indicates Miden Testnet)
      - `mdev` (indicates Miden Devnet)
    - Separator: `1`
    - Data part with integrated checksum

2. **Hexadecimal**:
  - Example: `0x4fa05c701c2a8c115358f234d9c4ff`
  - Frequently used encoding for blockchain addresses
  - Used to identify accounts in command-line interfaces or explorers.
